README.md, before:

# ahwr-backoffice-ui

[![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui)

Core delivery platform Node.js Frontend Template.

- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Node.js](#nodejs)
- [Server-side Caching](#server-side-caching)
- [Redis](#redis)
- [Local Development](#local-development)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [Production](#production)
  - [Npm scripts](#npm-scripts)
  - [Update dependencies](#update-dependencies)
  - [Formatting](#formatting)
    - [Windows prettier issue](#windows-prettier-issue)
- [Docker](#docker)
  - [Development image](#development-image)
  - [Production image](#production-image)
  - [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
  - [Dependabot](#dependabot)
  - [SonarCloud](#sonarcloud)
- [Licence](#licence)
  - [About the licence](#about-the-licence)

## Requirements

### Node.js

Please install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) `>= v22` and [npm](https://nodejs.org/) `>= v9`. You will find it
easier to use the Node Version Manager [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)

To use the correct version of Node.js for this application, via nvm:

```bash
cd ahwr-backoffice-ui
nvm use
```

## Server-side Caching

We use Catbox for server-side caching. By default the service will use CatboxRedis when deployed and CatboxMemory for
local development.
You can override the default behaviour by setting the `SESSION_CACHE_ENGINE` environment variable to either `redis` or
`memory`.

Please note: CatboxMemory (`memory`) is _not_ suitable for production use! The cache will not be shared between each
instance of the service and it will not persist between restarts.

## Redis

Redis is an in-memory key-value store. Every instance of a service has access to the same Redis key-value store similar
to how services might have a database (or MongoDB). All frontend services are given access to a namespaced prefixed that
matches the service name. e.g. `my-service` will have access to everything in Redis that is prefixed with `my-service`.

If your service does not require a session cache to be shared between instances or if you don't require Redis, you can
disable setting `SESSION_CACHE_ENGINE=false` or changing the default value in `src/config/index.js`.

## Proxy

We are using forward-proxy which is set up by default. To make use of this: `import { fetch } from 'undici'` then
because of the `setGlobalDispatcher(new ProxyAgent(proxyUrl))` calls will use the ProxyAgent Dispatcher

If you are not using Wreck, Axios or Undici or a similar http that uses `Request`. Then you may have to provide the
proxy dispatcher:

To add the dispatcher to your own client:

```javascript
import { ProxyAgent } from "undici";

return await fetch(url, {
  dispatcher: new ProxyAgent({
    uri: proxyUrl,
    keepAliveTimeout: 10,
    keepAliveMaxTimeout: 10,
  }),
});
```

## Local Development

### Setup

Install application dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

### Development

To run the application in `development` mode run:

```bash
./scripts/start
```

### Npm scripts

All available Npm scripts can be seen in [package.json](./package.json)
To view them in your command line run:

```bash
npm run
```

### Update dependencies

To update dependencies use [npm-check-updates](https://github.com/raineorshine/npm-check-updates):

> The following script is a good start. Check out all the options on
> the [npm-check-updates](https://github.com/raineorshine/npm-check-updates)

```bash
ncu --interactive --format group
```

### Formatting

#### Windows prettier issue

If you are having issues with formatting of line breaks on Windows update your global git config by running:

```bash
git config --global core.autocrlf false
```

## Docker

### Development image

> [!TIP]
> For Apple Silicon users, you may need to add `--platform linux/amd64` to the `docker run` command to ensure
> compatibility fEx: `docker build --platform=linux/arm64 --no-cache --tag ahwr-backoffice-ui`

Build:

```bash
docker build --target development --no-cache --tag ahwr-backoffice-ui:development .
```

Run:

```bash
docker run -p 3000:3000 ahwr-backoffice-ui:development
```

### Production image

Build:

```bash
docker build --no-cache --tag ahwr-backoffice-ui .
```

Run:

```bash
docker run -p 3000:3000 ahwr-backoffice-ui
```

### Docker Compose

A local environment with:

- Localstack for AWS services (S3, SQS)
- Redis
- MongoDB
- This service.
- A commented out backend example.

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

### Dependabot

We have added an example dependabot configuration file to the repository. You can enable it by renaming
the [.github/example.dependabot.yml](.github/example.dependabot.yml) to `.github/dependabot.yml`

### SonarCloud

Instructions for setting up SonarCloud can be found in [sonar-project.properties](./sonar-project.properties).

## Licence

THIS INFORMATION IS LICENSED UNDER THE CONDITIONS OF THE OPEN GOVERNMENT LICENCE found at:

<http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3>

The following attribution statement MUST be cited in your products and applications when using this information.

> Contains public sector information licensed under the Open Government license v3

### About the licence

The Open Government Licence (OGL) was developed by the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) to enable
information providers in the public sector to license the use and re-use of their information under a common open
licence.

It is designed to encourage use and re-use of information freely and flexibly, with only a few conditions.

Commit message:

Adding information about running tests

README.md, after:

# ahwr-backoffice-ui

[![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=DEFRA_ahwr-backoffice-ui)

Core delivery platform Node.js Frontend Template.

- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Node.js](#nodejs)
- [Server-side Caching](#server-side-caching)
- [Redis](#redis)
- [Local Development](#local-development)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [Production](#production)
  - [Npm scripts](#npm-scripts)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Update dependencies](#update-dependencies)
  - [Formatting](#formatting)
    - [Windows prettier issue](#windows-prettier-issue)
- [Docker](#docker)
  - [Development image](#development-image)
  - [Production image](#production-image)
  - [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
  - [Dependabot](#dependabot)
  - [SonarCloud](#sonarcloud)
- [Licence](#licence)
  - [About the licence](#about-the-licence)

## Requirements

### Node.js

Please install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) `>= v22` and [npm](https://nodejs.org/) `>= v9`. You will find it
easier to use the Node Version Manager [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)

To use the correct version of Node.js for this application, via nvm:

```bash
cd ahwr-backoffice-ui
nvm use
```

## Server-side Caching

We use Catbox for server-side caching. By default the service will use CatboxRedis when deployed and CatboxMemory for
local development.
You can override the default behaviour by setting the `SESSION_CACHE_ENGINE` environment variable to either `redis` or
`memory`.

Please note: CatboxMemory (`memory`) is _not_ suitable for production use! The cache will not be shared between each
instance of the service and it will not persist between restarts.

## Redis

Redis is an in-memory key-value store. Every instance of a service has access to the same Redis key-value store similar
to how services might have a database (or MongoDB). All frontend services are given access to a namespaced prefixed that
matches the service name. e.g. `my-service` will have access to everything in Redis that is prefixed with `my-service`.

If your service does not require a session cache to be shared between instances or if you don't require Redis, you can
disable setting `SESSION_CACHE_ENGINE=false` or changing the default value in `src/config/index.js`.

## Proxy

We are using forward-proxy which is set up by default. To make use of this: `import { fetch } from 'undici'` then
because of the `setGlobalDispatcher(new ProxyAgent(proxyUrl))` calls will use the ProxyAgent Dispatcher

If you are not using Wreck, Axios or Undici or a similar http that uses `Request`. Then you may have to provide the
proxy dispatcher:

To add the dispatcher to your own client:

```javascript
import { ProxyAgent } from "undici";

return await fetch(url, {
  dispatcher: new ProxyAgent({
    uri: proxyUrl,
    keepAliveTimeout: 10,
    keepAliveMaxTimeout: 10,
  }),
});
```

## Local Development

### Setup

Install application dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

### Development

To run the application in `development` mode run:

```bash
./scripts/start
```

### Npm scripts

All available Npm scripts can be seen in [package.json](./package.json)
To view them in your command line run:

```bash
npm run
```

### Testing

Out of the box, integration tests will fail using `npm run test`. This is due to missing a view called `layout.njk` under `app/view/layouts`

You could run `./scripts/test` to run tests, which will run the tests dockerized (there is a watch option available)

The other option is to run the `./scripts/start` to run the application in a dockerized environemnt and then copy out the `dist` folder, so the view can be generated on your machine (once it is done once, you will not need the `dist` folder). The command to copy the files is:

```bash
docker cp {your_cotainer_id}:/home/node/app/frontend/dist app/frontend/
```

You can retrieve the container id using docker by running

```bash
dockert container ls
```

And then look for the container called `ahwr-backoffice-ui-development`

### Update dependencies

To update dependencies use [npm-check-updates](https://github.com/raineorshine/npm-check-updates):

> The following script is a good start. Check out all the options on
> the [npm-check-updates](https://github.com/raineorshine/npm-check-updates)

```bash
ncu --interactive --format group
```

### Formatting

#### Windows prettier issue

If you are having issues with formatting of line breaks on Windows update your global git config by running:

```bash
git config --global core.autocrlf false
```

## Docker

### Development image

> [!TIP]
> For Apple Silicon users, you may need to add `--platform linux/amd64` to the `docker run` command to ensure
> compatibility fEx: `docker build --platform=linux/arm64 --no-cache --tag ahwr-backoffice-ui`

Build:

```bash
docker build --target development --no-cache --tag ahwr-backoffice-ui:development .
```

Run:

```bash
docker run -p 3000:3000 ahwr-backoffice-ui:development
```

### Production image

Build:

```bash
docker build --no-cache --tag ahwr-backoffice-ui .
```

Run:

```bash
docker run -p 3000:3000 ahwr-backoffice-ui
```

### Docker Compose

A local environment with:

- Localstack for AWS services (S3, SQS)
- Redis
- MongoDB
- This service.
- A commented out backend example.

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

### Dependabot

We have added an example dependabot configuration file to the repository. You can enable it by renaming
the [.github/example.dependabot.yml](.github/example.dependabot.yml) to `.github/dependabot.yml`

### SonarCloud

Instructions for setting up SonarCloud can be found in [sonar-project.properties](./sonar-project.properties).

## Licence

THIS INFORMATION IS LICENSED UNDER THE CONDITIONS OF THE OPEN GOVERNMENT LICENCE found at:

<http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3>

The following attribution statement MUST be cited in your products and applications when using this information.

> Contains public sector information licensed under the Open Government license v3

### About the licence

The Open Government Licence (OGL) was developed by the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) to enable
information providers in the public sector to license the use and re-use of their information under a common open
licence.

It is designed to encourage use and re-use of information freely and flexibly, with only a few conditions.
